.. highlight:: rest

.. _installation:

Installation and Configuration
==============================

This chapter describes how to install, configure, and uninstall SimulatorToFMU on Windows and Linux operating systems. SimulatorToFMU is currently not supported on Mac OS.


Software requirements
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

To export a Simulator as an FMU, SimulatorToFMU needs:

1. Python and following dependencies:

   - jinja2
   - lxml

2. One Modelica parser

3. A C-Compiler

SimulatorToFMU has been tested with:

- Python 2.7, Python 3.4, and Python 3.7
- Three Modelica parsers (All parsers are not needed for the export)

  - Dymola 2018 on Windows and Linux
  - JModelica 2.0 on Windows, and JModelica trunk version 9899 on Linux
  - OpenModelica 1.11.0 on Windows

- C-Compiler: Microsoft Visual Studio 10 Professional, and Microsoft Visual Studio 14.0

.. _installation directory:

Installation
^^^^^^^^^^^^

To install SimulatorToFMU, proceed as follows:

1. Add following folders to your system path:

 - Python installation folder (e.g. ``C:\Python27```)
 - Python scripts folder (e.g. ``C:\Python27\Scripts``),
 - Dymola executable folder (e.g. ``C:\Program Files(x86)\Dymola2018\bin``) if Dymola is your Modelica parser.
 - JModelica installation folder (e.g. ``C:\JModelica.org-2.0``) if JModelica is your Modelica parser.
 - OpenModelica executable folder (e.g. ``C:\OpenModelica1.11.0-32bit\bin``) if OpenModelica is your Modelica parser.


 You can add folders to your system path by performing following steps on Windows 8 or 10:

 - In Search, search for and then select: System (Control Panel)

 - Click the Advanced system settings link.

 - Click Environment Variables. In the section System Variables, find the PATH environment variable and select it. Click Edit.

 - In the Edit System Variable (or New System Variable) window, specify the value of the PATH environment variable (e.g. ``C:\Python27``, ``C:\Python27\Scripts``). Click OK. Close all remaining windows by clicking OK.

 - Reopen Command prompt window for your changes to be active.

 To check if the variables have been correctly added to the system path on Windows, type ``python``, ``dymola``, ``pylab``, or ``omc``
 into a command prompt to see if the right version of Python, Dymola, JModelica,  or OpenModelica starts up.

 .. note::

    - To avoid adding Dymola, JModelica, or OpenModelica to the system path, provide the path to the executables to SimulatorToFMU.py. See :ref:`build_cmd` for the lists of arguments of SimulatorToFMU.

    - SimulatorToFMU sets the hidden Dymola 2018's flag ``Advanced.AllowStringParametersForFMU`` to ``true`` when exporting a simulation program/script as an FMU. The flag is not available in older versions of Dymola. The flag is required to allow a master algorithm to set the path to the configuration file of an FMU. See section :ref:`build_cmd` for more details.

2. Install SimulatorToFMU by downloading the package from the master branch
   which is at https://github.com/LBNL-ETA/SimulatorToFMU.


  The installation directory should contain the following subdirectories:

   - ``bin/``
     (Scripts for running unit tests)

   - ``doc/``
     (Documentation sources)

   - ``fmus/``
     (FMUs folder)

   - ``parser/``
     (Python scripts, Modelica templates and XML validator files)


UnitTests
^^^^^^^^^

The unittests use PyFMI to run the FMUs generated by the tested Modelica parsers.
PyFMI is included in JModelica. To run the unittests, install JModelica and add
the installation folder to your system path.

To test your installation run from the installation ``bin`` folder

.. code-block:: none

    > python runUnitTest.py

.. note:: On Windows' machines, first run

 .. code-block:: none

     > setenv.bat

prior to starting the unittests. `setenv.bat` sets the environment variables
needed by PyFMI/JModelica to run FMUs. Invoking `setenv.bat` in the command prompt, assumes
that JModelica is on the system path. Otherwise,
you will need to provide the full path to `setenv.bat` which is in the Installation
folder of JModelica.

Uninstallation
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

To uninstall SimulatorToFMU, delete the installation directory.
